a car engine generates power from the
expansion of compressed air in a
contained cylinder with the help of fuel
that is why it's called as an internal
combustion engine before getting into
the working let's see the main parts
involved in the working of an engine
first the crankshaft this is the part
which converts the linear motion of the
piston to a rotational force next the
Pistons and the piston rods the Pistons
will be pushed down by the expansion of
compressed air and turns the crankshaft
and the valves which controls the flow
of air and fuel into the cylinders these
vowels are driven by the intake camshaft
and the exhaust camshaft and the
camshafts are driven by the crank itself
using a timing belt there will be idler
pulleys and attention a pulley to hold
the belt tight in place this here is the
internal structure of a four-stroke
inline 4-cylinder dohc engine which is
commonly found in most hatchback and
sedan cars the four-stroke engine should
pass through four different strokes to
complete one cycle to produce power
they are intake compression power and
exhaust stroke the crank two camshaft
ratio is 2 is to 1 which means it will
take to crank revolutions to complete
one camshaft revolution and the
camshafts are designed in a responsive
manner to open or closed based on the
corresponding strokes of each cylinder
let's take a look at a single cylinder
and see how a four-stroke engine works
in detail in order to ignite the air
fuel mixture a spark plug is used this
will ignite the compressed air fuel
mixture with the help of an electrical
spark
we will take it down by each stroke the
intake stroke the inlet valve opens and
the downward movement of the piston
creates a suction this pulls the air
fuel mixture into the cylinder once the
air fuel mixture is in the cylinder
compression stroke begins compressing
the mixture at this time both Inlet and
outlet valves stays closed at the end of
compression stroke the air fuel mixture
is ignited by the spark plug the
explosion exerts pressure and pushes the
piston down this is the power stroke
which produces power to the crank at the
exhaust stroke the outlet valves opens
and the piston pushes out the burned gas
the cycle starts again from intake
stroke keeping the engine running and
produces power for a carburetor engine
the air and fuel are mixed inside the
carburetor assembly and fed to the
cylinders in the case of a fuel-injected
engine the fuel is injected into the
intake manifold or directly into the
cylinders since only a power stroke
produces power you may wonder how the
engine turns continuously well the
answer is in the crank itself the
flywheel and the crank counterweights
provides momentum which keeps the
crankshaft from stopping immediately for
a four-cylinder engine considering any
time instance one cylinder is always in
power stroke which produces more power
and less vibrations comparing to a
single cylinder engine and that is how a
car engine produces power and simple
thanks for watching and stay tuned for
more presentations from Auto Tech labs